Our second demo application uses the ObjectMapper and JSON
parser inside a more real-world application.
We're using the servlet API in order to write a really simple
server-side application that processing JSON.
It does this by wrapping an ObjectMapper within a servlet and also receiving
a JSON document that's being posted to it and processing it in order to
validate some input about the loan application.
Now in module 7,
we'll talk more about how to integrate JSON within other application frameworks,
such as Spring and JAX-RS.
And these offer a simpler integration path and are a
lot neater than the servlet API,
but this is a nice simple way of getting us started.
So we're going to take a little look at this more realistic application.
So it's more realistic in the sense that we've got
a little web server on the go.
And as our SimpleJettyService.
run method shows us, we're going to run a little server on port 8000,
an HTTP server,
and we're going to send any request through to this servlet
that we're taking here to set things up.
This DomBankApplicationServlet is going to use the DOM API,
or the tree mode if you prefer that terminology API from Jackson,
and we're going to receive a request for this bank loan.
We are going to process the bank loan.
So we need to extract the amount of money and the
total income from the bank loan.
And if the amount of money that wants to be borrowed is less than or
equal to three times the size of the totalIncome,
we are going to approve.
Otherwise,
we're going to deny the application and we're going to use
HTTP status codes and respond with a couple of strings to say
whether we approve or deny it.
So a very,
very simple web service for looking at the business
logic of this bank application.
So,
we're going to start off just like before by creating
a field for the ObjectMapper here.
Now it's worth noting that if you're using the servlet API
and you create an ObjectMapper like this,
it will be shared between different threads.
So, that's safe to do with the ObjectMapper class,
but there's potential for a lot of contention there.
And we're just going to leave it in the field for now because it's a very,
very simple service that we're going to use here.
The first thing we need to do is parse in the JSON document,
so let's use the readTree API.
And we need to get the input from the HTTP request.
So,
let's get the InputStream from the HttpServletRequest and read that into a tree.
So I'm going to call that the loanApplication.
Then we need to write a couple of methods here, that local variable final.
And our little methods need to calculate the totalIncome.
We're going to say getTotalIncome from the loanApplication.
And I'm also going to say get the amount here.
So let's start with the amount.
Now the amount is within the loanDetails object.
So I need to take that loanApplication, look up a field by its name,
which is what the.
get method on a JsonNode gives us.
As I say, JsonNodes are a bit like a map of key value pairs here.
So we're going to get out the loanDetails object.
Then, from within the loanDetails object,
firstly I want to check if that loanDetails object is not null
because if it was a missing field it would return null.
And if it's not null, I'm going to get the amountNode out.
So take the loanDetails object and.
get the amount string out.
And that's going to be the amountNode.
And then the amountNode will have a numeric value and so
I'm going to return that amountNode.
asDouble.
When we looked at a string earlier to convert it, that's.
asDouble to convert it to a number.
Now our loanApplication, given the totalIncome is a little bit trickier.
So what we need to do is here take that loanApplication and we
want to look up the value in it called jobs.
And that's going to give us another JsonNode back for the jobs.
And if the jobs is not null, we are going to look through it.
I'm just going to use an old school for loop here to
loop over it because we can also, especially if it's an array,
the jobs field within our application, just to remind you what this looks like,
we're going to loop over that array and those indexed because it's a JSON array,
you see.
So we can look up that as well.
And we'll also use the.
get method via index.
So this is a job within that array.
And what we all want to do is within that job we want to get the
annualIncome field and also get that as a double.
So, here we want to say totalIncome if 0,
totalIncome += to the annualIncome, and then return the totalIncome at the end.
So that's the next step.
I'm just going to, for the purposes of this request so you can see it,
take the response, get the outputStream,
and say print out TotalIncome = totalIncome.
We probably want that new line terminated as well.
And, Amount is equal to amount.
Then we're going to have to do some processing here.
So our business logic was if the amount was less than or
equal to three times the totalIncome,
that's how we decided that sounded like a reasonable request for a loan,
then we need to set the response code.
So take that response, set the status code to.
SC_OK and take that outputStream and print with it Approved.
Otherwise, we're going to take that response and set the status to be.
SC_FORBIDDEN.
And then we'll take the outputStream.
println Denied.
Right.
So here's where the test of our code comes in.
I'm going to load up that little JettyServer.
Then I'm going to flip over to my command line here.
And in my command line, I've got a little post-bank-loan script.
This comes with your project that you can download.
And that does a curl POST to the local thing.
So what this basically says is take the file I'm going to
provide as an argument and send it to the localhost on port
8000 as an application/json file.
So, if I post my bank_loan.
json file, which is the same one as we've seen earlier,
we see my TotalIncome is 71000 pounds a year,
the Amount is 10000 pounds, and we've Approved the request.
Now, if I look at the bad_loan file, which is also Joan Smith,
who's trying to build an extension to a house,
but this bad_loan.
json file has no jobs associated with it,
and we run that same code, we can see TotalIncome is 0,
Amount was 10000, Denied.
Fantastic! And that was all using the DOM API.